Water Battery
by Les Hall

This Technology Information Summary from Les Hall of elequa
is intended to convey a potentially significant discovery
to anyone in the public domain who has interest in water
purification, especially for people who lack clean water.  

Please see the following link to a Wikipedia article about
an Earth Battery:  

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Earth_battery

which describes the use of dissimilar metal electrodes driven
into the earth to form a battery.  

It is also known that a solution of citric acid from fruit 
or even potatoes will create a battery as shown here:  

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lemon_battery

Add that fact to the process of electrocoagulation, described
here in this Wikipedia article:  

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electrocoagulation

When we combine these three ideas together into one notion
we can produce what I am calling a Water Battery, or in other
words a self-purifying water device, as follows.  

Chose two dissimilar metals such as aluminum and copper from
the trash bin of any recycling or disposal source.  Clean them
to expose their metal surfaces.  Put them into a container such
that they do not touch each other.  Pour in some impure water
containing any type of crud that can be electrocoagulated.  
Add salt or acid, enough to generate a voltage between the two
metal electrodes.  Wait a few hours to a few days.  The water
will be cleaner than it was before.  It can be filtered now to
get cleaner water.  How does this work?

Well, the dissimilar metals generate electricity due to their
interaction with the salt and / or acid in the water, the 
resulting electric voltage is applied to the solution creating
a current which then electrocoagulates the water, killing
bacteria and viruses and making a filterable water solution.  

Once this simple technology becomes known, all manner of 
devices may be constructed to provide clean water from the
particular source of impure water in any given situation. 
 
In addition to the ubiquitous nature of such a device, the 
free and open source nature of the idea means that anyone
can use the technology to prevent themselves from being 
ruled by water barons for example, and it is useful as a 
form of disaster relief in situations where clean water
becomes unavailable.  

This "Water Battery" can also clean up industrial waste and
erase the errors of the past, present, and future.  So now
you know what I know - it's up to you to do something with 
this knowledge.  

Les
Make history!  









